MS Dynamics 365 template (#403)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: modules/ROOT/pages/microsoft/microsoft-dynamics-365-connector-examples.adoc

= Microsoft Dynamics 365 - Examples - Mule 4
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../../assets/images/

> Demonstrate the use of Microsft Dynamics 365 Connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can better understand how to use Microsft Dynamics 365 Connector if you build and run a demonstartion project.
```

== Prerequisites

> To build and run this demo project you need:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build and run this demo project, you need:
```

> * Anypoint Studio with at least Mule ESB 4.0 and later tuntime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Anypoint Studio with Mule ESB 4.0 or later.
```

> * Microsft Dynamics 365 Connector v1.0.0 or higher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Microsft Dynamics 365 Connector v1.0.0 or later.
```
GLOBALLY use "later" rather than "higher," "above," or similar.

> * Dynamics 365 (CRM 8.2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Microsoft Dynamics 365 (CRM 8.2)
```

=== Test the Flows

> . Specify your OAuth2 credentials for OAuth2 Username Password Config in /src/main/resources/mule-artifact.properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Specify your OAuth2 credentials for OAuth2 Username Password Config in /src/main/resources/mule-artifact.properties:
```

> +

Reviewer: GLOBALLY split these list items into a separate description para following the syntax item listed.

Do this with ALL steps and list items. I have edited for this many times, and if I continue to see this uncorrected before my review, I will have to start returning requests as not ready for edit. Sorry!

Also, GLOBALLY replace any use of space-hyphen-space as a narrative separator. When necessary, use a colon instead.

> * `config-oauth-user-pass.username` - Username used to initialize the session

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `config-oauth-user-pass.username`
Username to initialize the session
```

> * `config-oauth-user-pass.password` - Password used to authenticate the user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `config-oauth-user-pass.password`
Password used to authenticate the user
```

> * `config-oauth-user-pass.resource` - The app ID URI of the web API (secured resource). It must be root URI, without specifing the CRM version, for example, `https://<your-org>.crm2.dynamics.com/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `config-oauth-user-pass.resource`
App ID URI of the web API (secured resource). It must be the root URI, without specifing the CRM version: for example, `https://<your-org>.crm2.dynamics.com/`.
```

> * `config-oauth-user-pass.clientId` - The app ID assigned to your app when you registered it with Azure Active Directory. You can find this in the Azure portal. Click *Active Directory*, click the directory, choose the application, and click *Configure*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `config-oauth-user-pass.clientId`
App ID assigned to your app when you registered it with Azure Active Directory. You can find this in the Azure portal.
```
We should never include hidden tasks in a definition list, and certainly not document another company's UI.

> * `config-oauth-user-pass.clientSecret` - The application secret that you created in the app registration portal for your app. The secret should not be used in a native app, because client secrets cannot be reliably stored on devices. The secret is required for web apps and web APIs, which have the ability to store the client_ secret securely on the server side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `config-oauth-user-pass.clientSecret`
Application secret that you created in the app registration portal for your app. The secret should not be used in a native app, because client secrets cannot be reliably stored on devices. The secret is required for web apps and web APIs, which have the ability to store the client secret securely on the server side.
```

> * `config-oauth-user-pass.tokenRequestEndpoint` - The token endpoint that is called to get the access token, for example, `https://login.windows.net/<tenant-id>/oauth2/token` where 'tenant-id' is the Azure Active Directory ID)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `config-oauth-user-pass.tokenRequestEndpoint`
Token endpoint that is called to get the access token: for example, `https://login.windows.net/<tenant-id>/oauth2/token`, where 'tenant-id' is the Azure Active Directory ID.
```

+

> . Specify the DataSense connection timeout with more than 200 seconds because the connector makes several requests to provide DataSense information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Specify a DataSense connection timeout over 200 seconds, because the connector makes several requests to provide DataSense information.
```

. Run the project in Studio.
. Type `localhost:8081` in your browser to access the selection menu of the demo.

> . Optionally you can configure Connection Timeout and Read Timeout. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Optionally configure Connection Timeout and Read Timeout. 
```

Connection Timeout is the timeout in making the initial connection with the server. 
Read Timeout is the timeout on waiting to read data from the server.
	
	
=== Mule Flows Overview

> 	

Reviewer: Consider adding a narrative snippet that introduces the purpose of this list and why your audience wants or needs it: to prepare for the actual flow Mule XML Flows example.  Not really an overview so much as prep for the actual thing. Should this perhaps follow the example? It really lacks context otherwise.

* `CREATE_EMPTY_CONTACT_DEMO`: 
+
Creates an empty contact entity that is required later in other flows.
+

> [GET] The HTTP endpoint listens to the following URL: `+http://localhost:8081/createContact+`

Reviewer: Consider GLOBALLY removing the extra lines in this presentation (and DO remove the colon after each list item):

@kbostrom	Reply…
* `CREATE_EMPTY_CONTACT_DEMO`
Creates an empty contact entity that is required later in other flows.
[GET] The HTTP endpoint listens to the following URL: `+http://localhost:8081/createContact+`

Reviewer: I will not reformat; please do so yourself, if you agree.

+
* `CREATE_MULTIPLE_ENTITIES_DEMO`: 
+
Creates multiple entities of the same type in a single batch request.
+
[POST] The HTTP endpoint listens to the following URL: `+http://localhost:8081/createMultipleAccounts+`
+
Request example: `[{"AccountName":"Account Name 1","CreditOnHold":true,"CreditLimit":1500},{"AccountName":"Account Name 2","CreditOnHold":false,"CreditLimit":2000}]`
+
* `UPDATE_ENTITY_DEMO`: 
+
Updates an account with specified attributes.
+
[POST] The HTTP endpoint listens to the following URL: `http://localhost:8081/updateAccount`
+
Request example: `{"EntityId":"<ID>","AccountName":"Updated Name","CreditLimit":1500}`
+
* `UPDATE_MULTIPLE_ENTITIES_DEMO`: 
+
Updates multiple entities of the same type in a single batch request.
+
[POST] The HTTP endpoint listens to the following URL: `+http://localhost:8081/updateMultipleAccounts+`
+
Request example: `[{"EntityId":"<ID>","AccountName":"Updated Name 1"},{"EntityId":"<ID>","AccountName":"Updated Name 2"}]`
+
* `DELETE_ENTITY_DEMO`: 
+
Deletes an entity of a specified type.

> [POST] The HTTP endpoint listens to the following URL: `+http://localhost:8081/deleteAccount+`

Reviewer: Note missing line here (original presentation style)

* `RETRIEVE_ENTITIES_BY_URL_DEMO`:
+
Retrieves multiple entities based on a URL request.
+
[GET] The HTTP endpoint listens to the following URL: `+http://localhost:8081/retrieveAccountsByURL+`
+
* `RETRIEVE_ENTITIES_BY_QUERY_DEMO`:
+
Retrieves multiple entities based on Datasense Query Language.
+
[GET] The HTTP endpoint listens to the following URL: `+http://localhost:8081/retrieveAccountsByQuery+`
+
* `DISASSOCIATE_ENTITIES_DEMO`:
+
Dissasociates entities. You provide the ID of the entity upon which the request will be made and the keys that will be dissasociated.
+
[POST] The HTTP endpoint listens to the following URL: `+http://localhost:8081/disassociateEntities+`
+
Request example: `{"EntityId":"<ID>","EntityLinkKeys":["primarycontactid"]}`
+
* `DO_ACTION_DEMO`:
+
Calls the `WinOpportunity` action.
+
[POST] The HTTP endpoint listens to the following URL: `+http://localhost:8081/doAction+`
+
Request example: `{"Subject":"Won Opportunity","Status":3,"OpportunityId":"<OP_ID>"}`

Browse to `+http://localhost:8081+` to test the flows, or you can POST JSONs using a tool like curl, or any other tool (Chrome/Mozilla Firefox extensions) that lets you POST a body when calling the URL.

> === Mule XML Flow

Reviewer: not edited
